Small enterprises have a strategic role to play in the economic
and social development of the developing countries. These industries
are the seed bed for new entrepreneurs. There is no denying the fact
that the small scale industries have enoromous job potentiality with low
rate of investment. Being widely dispersed, these are capable of rem-
edying the grave regional imbalances of industrial development. Simi-
larly, these industries being under the ownership and control of the pro-
ducers, themselves dispersed through out the country can ensure an
equitable distribution of income and wealth. Their contribution in the
socio-economic transformation of developing countries can not be un-
der estimated. In other words, they are the instruments of change, growth
and diversification.

2

The unit should arrange with its bankers to provide additional
need based working capital facility. SIDBI may also provide additional
working capital by way, of short-term loans in suitable cases.
Assistance for developmental purpose
Apart from providing loan/equity assistance to individual projects,
as mentioned above, SIDBI may also provide assistance by way of loan/
grant to accredited agencies for undertaking the following developmen-
tal activities:
Special studies on cluster basis for modernisation at
macro level in the clusters as also for drawing up micro level unit
specific schemes.

3

(vii) Project Appraisal.
(viii) Ecology.
(ix) Environmental Health.
(x) Subject Area Specialists.
(xi) Representatives on NGOs/persons concerned with environmental issue.
2. The chairman will be outstanding and experienced ecologist or environmentalist or
technical professional or wide managerial experience in the relevant development
sector.
3. The representative of IAA/Central/State will act as a member secretary.
4. Chairman and Members will serve in their individual capacities except those
specifically nominated as representatives.
5. The Membership of a Committee shall not exceed 15.