This elaborately revised journal, together with the newly com-
posed portions at the beginning and end and the numerous foot-
notes, formed the copy that Boswell sent to the printer. The first
batch of copy was delivered on 2 May; the Dedication to Malone
was written on 20 September; the book was published on 1 Octo-
ber 1785. Its success was immediate and the second edition, of
which Malone was the virtual editor, was published on 22 Decem-
ber following; in this edition Boswell added the useful table of
contents, the Appendix, and numerous notes. The third edition,
the last to appear in Boswell's lifetime and to receive his correction,

2

(a work since published under the title of A Political Survey of
Great Britain,) of whom he believed twenty were dead, the
publication having been so long delayed.-Johnson. 'Sir, I
imagine the delay of publication is owing to this;-that, after
publication, there will be no more subscribers, and few will send
the additional guinea to get their books: in which they will be
wrong; for there will be a great deal of instruction in the work.
I think highly of Campbell. In the first place, he has very good
parts. In the second place, he has very extensive reading; not,
perhaps, what is properly called learning, but history, politicks,
and, in short, that popular knowledge which makes a man very
useful. In the third place, he has learned much by what is
called the vox viva. He talks with a great many people."

3

originally inscribed to the memory of William, Lord Zouch, who died
in 1447, but altered to commemorate Humphrey Okeover, who died in
1538. The anonymous author of The History and Topography of Ash-
bourn, 1839, reported that the inscription was partly effaced (p. 200).
See also the Portfolio of the Brass Rubbing Society, 1898, Pt. 9.
Page 430, line 8. Mrs. Gell was, there can be little doubt, the wife
of Philip Gell (ante, v. 431, note 4): they were married on 11 May 1774.
She was Dorothy, daughter and co-heir of William Milnes of Aldercar
Park, Derbyshire; she was born on 4 Feb. 1758 and died on 29 April
1808. Sir William Gell, 1777-1836, the archaeologist and traveller, was
her second son. For the Gell pedigree sce Ince and Sleigh in The
Reliquary, 1870-71, xi, pl. 31.